Currently, Spirulina can produce some vitamins in good quantities. Caloric content is way to low to make it sustainable by itself, but cheap food is usually high in callories and low in vitamins.
It takes only water, vegetable fertilizer, baking soda and salt to grow spirulina, making it a very ressource efficient source of vitamins.
Management of temperature and light require more equipment, but can be done with households items like any lamp and any space heater that have set temperature.
Managing junk produced by cianobacteria is an issue that can be harder to solve. Right now, with straight strain, the best way i have found is give good movement to the culture, avoiding cells to gather around the junk, which might then precipitate of float and stick to the side of the tank. Having good control over the growth condition does reduce the production of unwanted junk by a lot. 
To extract the spirulina, a 20 micrometer filter does a good job. Rinsing the cianobacteria in the same filter is pretty easy and remove pretty much all taste. 
there is no need to crush the cell, we can digest them perfetly fine when fresh and it doesnt change bioavaillability of nutrients. 
cooling down the filter while leaving some culture medium while its gathering can allow the spirulina to stay fresh for longer.
A 12 liter aquarium culture need to have its population decreased about every 2 days at least, preventing the colony to slow  its growth and produce more junk. 
It can take more then 2 weeks for the Ph to raise above 10 from 8.2. Adding baking soda will reduce ph down to a minimum 8.2. 
For the initial seeding, making sure the ph is the same in the cample as in the tank is very important to reduce stress. ph can be raised with NaOH, which can be separated from drano. (if grain sizes differ, a sieve can seperate it easily. if there is metal particules in the naoh, put it in a filter, disolve quickly the mix and cool off what is left in the filter. to differentiate between NaOH and NaNO3, NaNO3 will burn brightly when mixed with some charcoal, NaOH will not.)
